README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# relic: objects from history <img src="logo.png" align="right" height="206" alt="" />

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Lifecycle:
experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#experimental)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/ecohealthalliance/relic/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ecohealthalliance/relic/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ecohealthalliance/relic/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ecohealthalliance/relic)
<!-- [![pkgcheck](https://github.com/ecohealthalliance/relic/workflows/pkgcheck/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ecohealthalliance/relic/actions?query=workflow%3Apkgcheck) -->
<!-- [![relic on R-Universe](https://ecohealthalliance.r-universe.dev/badges/relic)](https://ecohealthalliance.r-universe.dev/relic) -->
<!-- [![CRAN status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/relic)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=relic) -->
<!-- badges: end -->

> *And deeper than oblivion we do bury* <br /> *The incensing relics of
> it* <br /> William Shakespeare, [All’s Well That Ends Well,
> V.3](https://internetshakespeare.uvic.ca/doc/AWW_M/scene/5.3/index.html)

The `relic` package provides tools for working with version-controlled
workflows, in git repositories. It enables extracting and comparing
files and objects from project history. You can use `relic` for tasks
such as

- Pulling a file from a previous version of your code
- Creating a report (or a GIF!) that shows the evolution of a model
  object or output over the course of repository development
- Run code repeatedly at many points along repository history to compare
  outputs or performance.

`relic` has specific functionality for working with
[`targets`](https://books.ropensci.org/targets-manual) projects. It
works especially well when used in conjunction with [cloud-based,
versioned object
storage](https://books.ropensci.org/targets/cloud-storage.html).

## Installation

You can install the development version of `relic` like so:

``` r
devtools::install_github("ecohealthalliance/relic")
```

## Related work

- [`git2r`](https://github.com/ropensci/git2r) is a low-level R
  interface to git, and is used by `relic`.
- [`gert`](https://github.com/r-lib/gert) is an alternative,
  higher-level R interface to git especially suited to performing and
  automating git operations.
- [`gittargets`](https://github.com/ropensci/gittargets) is an R package
  for versioning objects in the `targets` framework by placing binary
  objects in a separate git or Git LFS repository.
- [`git2rdata`](https://github.com/ropensci/git2rdata/) is an R package
  for organizing tabular data to store in git repositories.
- [`git2net`](https://github.com/gotec/git2net) is a Python package that
  facilitates network analysis of git repositories.
- [`bisectr`](https://github.com/wch/bisectr) is an R package for
  running `git bisect` to find commits that introduced bugs in project
  history.
- [`dolt`](https:://dolthub.com) is a relational database with git-like
  versioning and [doltr](https:://github.com/ecohealthalliance/doltr) is
  an R interface to it.

Find more related packages on
[R-Universe](https://r-universe.dev/search/?q=git).

## Code of Conduct

Please note that the relic project is released with a [Contributor Code
of
Conduct](https://contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.html).
By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.

`relic` is developed at [EcoHealth
Alliance](https://www.ecohealthalliance.org/).

[![Created by EcoHealth
Alliance](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ropensci/citesdb/master/vignettes/figures/eha-footer.png)](https://www.ecohealthalliance.org/)

Commit message:

Add R-Universe link back to README

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# relic: objects from history <img src="logo.png" align="right" height="206" alt="" />

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Lifecycle:
experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#experimental)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/ecohealthalliance/relic/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ecohealthalliance/relic/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ecohealthalliance/relic/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ecohealthalliance/relic)
<!-- [![pkgcheck](https://github.com/ecohealthalliance/relic/workflows/pkgcheck/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ecohealthalliance/relic/actions?query=workflow%3Apkgcheck) -->
<!-- [![relic on R-Universe](https://ecohealthalliance.r-universe.dev/badges/relic)](https://ecohealthalliance.r-universe.dev/relic) -->
<!-- [![CRAN status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/relic)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=relic) -->
<!-- badges: end -->

> *And deeper than oblivion we do bury* <br /> *The incensing relics of
> it* <br /> William Shakespeare, [All’s Well That Ends Well,
> V.3](https://internetshakespeare.uvic.ca/doc/AWW_M/scene/5.3/index.html)

The `relic` package provides tools for working with version-controlled
workflows, in git repositories. It enables extracting and comparing
files and objects from project history. You can use `relic` for tasks
such as

- Pulling a file from a previous version of your code
- Creating a report (or a GIF!) that shows the evolution of a model
  object or output over the course of repository development
- Run code repeatedly at many points along repository history to compare
  outputs or performance.

`relic` has specific functionality for working with
[`targets`](https://books.ropensci.org/targets-manual) projects. It
works especially well when used in conjunction with [cloud-based,
versioned object
storage](https://books.ropensci.org/targets/cloud-storage.html).

## Installation

You can install the development version of `relic` from R-Universe like
so:

``` r
install.packages("relic", repos = "https://ecohealthalliance.r-universe.dev")
```

Or, you can build the source package from GitHub with

``` r
devtools::install_github("ecohealthalliance/relic")
```

## Related work

- [`git2r`](https://github.com/ropensci/git2r) is a low-level R
  interface to git, and is used by `relic`.
- [`gert`](https://github.com/r-lib/gert) is an alternative,
  higher-level R interface to git especially suited to performing and
  automating git operations.
- [`gittargets`](https://github.com/ropensci/gittargets) is an R package
  for versioning objects in the `targets` framework by placing binary
  objects in a separate git or Git LFS repository.
- [`git2rdata`](https://github.com/ropensci/git2rdata/) is an R package
  for organizing tabular data to store in git repositories.
- [`git2net`](https://github.com/gotec/git2net) is a Python package that
  facilitates network analysis of git repositories.
- [`bisectr`](https://github.com/wch/bisectr) is an R package for
  running `git bisect` to find commits that introduced bugs in project
  history.
- [`dolt`](https:://dolthub.com) is a relational database with git-like
  versioning and [doltr](https:://github.com/ecohealthalliance/doltr) is
  an R interface to it.

Find more related packages on
[R-Universe](https://r-universe.dev/search/?q=git).

## Code of Conduct

Please note that the relic project is released with a [Contributor Code
of
Conduct](https://contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.html).
By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.

`relic` is developed at [EcoHealth
Alliance](https://www.ecohealthalliance.org/).

[![Created by EcoHealth
Alliance](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ropensci/citesdb/master/vignettes/figures/eha-footer.png)](https://www.ecohealthalliance.org/)
